content/docs/platform/controls/input/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Input controls"
weight: 1
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\..\static
---

**Input fields** are one category of [controls](../) and include the most common data fields used to obtain user input - for example text boxes, lists and tables.



## Getting started with Input controls ##

To start adding Input controls (fields) to your Kianda forms, you first need to either open an existing process or create a new process by going to **Administration** > **Designer** in the left side menu. See [Create First Process](/docs/getting-started/create-first-process/) to learn how to create your first process.

![Opening Designer from left side menu by choosing Administration>Designer](/images/administration-designer-inputcont.jpg)

Once you have opened your process, select the form you want to work on (so that the **Edit Form** button ![Pen icon](/images/penicon.png) is shown) and then click on **Controls** in the left-hand pane so the Controls menu expands to show the four categories of Controls (fields): Input, Layout, Actions and Custom.

![Opening Controls menu to view four categories of Controls](/images/open-controls-cat-trainingprocess.jpg)

Select **Input** to view the eight types of Input fields:

![Input fields](/images/input-menu-controls.jpg)

The eight types of input fields are:

- **Text box** - A text box field is a section in your form where users can enter text, for example, an Address field. See [Text box control](/docs/platform/controls/input/textbox/) for more information. 
- **List** - A list field lists information, for example from a SharePoint data source. This is particular useful for dropdown menus, when you want a user to fill out a form and choose an item from a list. See [List control](/docs/platform/controls/input/list/) for more information.
- **Number** - A number field provides an input box that only allows numeric input, such as currencies or percentages.
- **Date** - A date field provides a date and time picker that allows users to input both date and time.
- **File** - A file field allows users to upload multiple files. Uploaded files are stored within the configured data structures or folders.
- **Table** - A table field creates a table for input in a form. This table can be filled by the user, or autofilled as part of a rule.
- **User picker** - A user picker field allows users to choose from a list of users. This can be a preconfigured group (like HR Managers) or a list of users - see [User picker control](/docs/platform/controls/input/user-picker/) for more information.
- **Toggle** - A toggle field can be used as a toggle or checkbox that allows users to turn on/off components of the form.



### How to add, edit, move and delete Input fields ###

To insert an **Input field** into your form, click on the field type you want to add from the **Input** menu. For example, to add a new text box field, click on **Text box** - a pop-up message will appear saying 'Field added' and a new text box with the default name **Text box 1** will be added to your form.

![Inserting a text box field](/images/insert-text-box-input.jpg)

To edit whatever type of input field you have added to your form, select the field (by either clicking on the field name or on the **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)) and then click on the **Edit Field** button (Pen icon) ![Pen button](/images/penicon.png). This will open up the **Edit Field** dialog box where you can make various changes (such as changing the Title of the field) and where a variety of options will be available to you, depending on the type of Input field you are working with.

![Select field to edit](/images/select-text-box-edit.jpg)

To move an input field, simply select the field's **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png) and drag and drop the field wherever you want to move it within your form.

![Select field drag handle](/images/move-drag-handle.jpg)

To delete an input field from your form, select the field (by either clicking on the field's name or its **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)), click on the **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin icon](/images/binicon.png) and then click on **OK** to confirm.

You can also view and edit an input field's **Field Properties** by selecting the field - for more details, see [Field Properties](/docs/platform/controls/properties/#field-properties/).

### Saving changes and version history ###
Make sure to save any changes you make by clicking on the **Save** button ![Save](/images/saveprocess.png). You will always have the option to revert back to previous versions of your form by clicking the **Design Version History** ![Version button](/images/version8.png) button in the top right corner.

### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

We have briefly introduced each of the eight types of **Input controls**. Now let's look at each of these types of input fields in more detail:

Commit message:

Changed instructional steps to numbered list where relevant.
Changed instructional steps to numbered list where relevant.

content/docs/platform/controls/input/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Input controls"
weight: 1
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\..\static
---

**Input fields** are one category of [controls](../) and include the most common data fields used to obtain user input - for example text boxes, lists and tables.



## Getting started with Input controls ##

To start adding Input controls (fields) to your Kianda forms:

1. First, either open an existing process or create a new process by going to **Administration** > **Designer** in the left side menu. See [Create First Process](/docs/getting-started/create-first-process/) to learn how to create your first process.

![Opening Designer from left side menu by choosing Administration>Designer](/images/administration-designer-inputcont.jpg)

2. Once you have opened your process, select the form you want to work on (so that the **Edit Form** button ![Pen icon](/images/penicon.png) is shown) and then click on **Controls** in the left-hand pane so the Controls menu expands to show the four categories of Controls (fields): Input, Layout, Actions and Custom.

![Opening Controls menu to view four categories of Controls](/images/open-controls-cat-trainingprocess.jpg)

3. Select **Input** to view the eight types of Input fields:

![Input fields](/images/input-menu-controls.jpg)

The eight types of input fields are:

- **Text box** - A text box field is a section in your form where users can enter text, for example, an Address field. See [Text box control](/docs/platform/controls/input/textbox/) for more information. 
- **List** - A list field lists information, for example from a SharePoint data source. This is particular useful for dropdown menus, when you want a user to fill out a form and choose an item from a list. See [List control](/docs/platform/controls/input/list/) for more information.
- **Number** - A number field provides an input box that only allows numeric input, such as currencies or percentages.
- **Date** - A date field provides a date and time picker that allows users to input both date and time.
- **File** - A file field allows users to upload multiple files. Uploaded files are stored within the configured data structures or folders.
- **Table** - A table field creates a table for input in a form. This table can be filled by the user, or autofilled as part of a rule.
- **User picker** - A user picker field allows users to choose from a list of users. This can be a preconfigured group (like HR Managers) or a list of users - see [User picker control](/docs/platform/controls/input/user-picker/) for more information.
- **Toggle** - A toggle field can be used as a toggle or checkbox that allows users to turn on/off components of the form.



### How to add, edit, move and delete Input fields ###

To insert an **Input field** into your form, click on the field type you want to add from the **Input** menu. For example, to add a new text box field, click on **Text box** - a pop-up message will appear saying 'Field added' and a new text box with the default name **Text box 1** will be added to your form.

![Inserting a text box field](/images/insert-text-box-input.jpg)

To edit whatever type of input field you have added to your form:

1. Select the field (by either clicking on the field name or on the **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png))
2. Then click on the **Edit Field** button (Pen icon) ![Pen button](/images/penicon.png). 
3. The **Edit Field** dialog box will automatically open, providing you with a variety of options for editing the field - such as changing the Title of the field - depending on the type of Input field you are working with.

![Select field to edit](/images/select-text-box-edit.jpg)

To move an input field, simply

1. Select the field's **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)
2. Drag and drop the field wherever you want to move it within your form. This example shows how you could move a Text box field in a form:

![Select field drag handle](/images/move-drag-handle.jpg)

To delete an Input field from your form:

1. Select the field (by either clicking on the field's name or its **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png))
2. Click on the **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin icon](/images/binicon.png) 
3. Click on **OK** to confirm.

You can also view and edit an input field's **Field Properties** by selecting the field - for more details, see [Field Properties](/docs/platform/controls/properties/#field-properties/).

### Saving changes and version history ###
Make sure to save any changes you make by clicking on the **Save** button ![Save](/images/saveprocess.png). You will always have the option to revert back to previous versions of your form by clicking the **Design Version History** ![Version button](/images/version8.png) button in the top right corner.

### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

We have briefly introduced each of the eight types of **Input controls**. Now let's look at each of these types of input fields in more detail:
