content/docs/platform/controls/input/user-picker.md, before:

---
title: "User picker control"
weight: 8
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\..\static
---

The **User picker field** can be used in a form if you want the form user to select a user, multiple users or a group of users. You can format the User picker field so that, for example, the form user can choose any user, can only choose a user or users from a pre-configured group - for example, users in the HR Department - or can choose multiple users.

You can pre-define Groups on Kianda by using the Users function under Kianda Administration. To learn more about how you can set up and manage Groups, go to [Users & Groups](/docs/platform/administration/users/).

For example, in a 'Training Request' form, you may insert a **User picker field** titled 'Manager' so that the user can select their manager (who will subsequently need to approve or reject their training request once it has been submitted). 



## How to get started

1. To add a **User picker field** to a form, first open the relevant process. Then select the form within that process that you want to add the field to (so that the **Edit Form** button ![Edit form button](/images/penicon.png) is visible).

2. Insert the **User picker field** by clicking on **Controls** in the left-hand pane to expand the Controls menu, then select **Input** to view the range of Input controls and click on **User picker**. If you want to insert the new field into a panel in your form, first select the panel by clicking on the drag handle button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png) and then insert the new User picker field from the Controls menu.

	![Insert User picker field](/images/user-picker-insert.jpg)

3. A **New field - User picker** dialog box will open with a range of options you can choose from for your new User picker field.

   ![New field user picker dialog box](/images/user-picker-dialog.jpg)

   

   The options available include:

   - **Title** - You can change the name of the User picker field from the default ''**User picker 1**'

   - **Name (Unique)** - This is a unique name for the field

   - **Help text** - You can insert text to help the form user to complete the User Picker field. Taking the example of the 'Manager' User picker field in a 'Training Request' form, you could insert help text to this effect:

      ![User picker field help text example dialog box](/images/user-picker-helptext-example.jpg)

      If you add help text, a question mark ![Help text icon](/images/help-icon.jpg) icon will appear next to the field title and, if the user clicks on this, they will see the help text you have inserted.

      ![User picker field help text example icon](/images/user-picker-helptext-shown.jpg)

      

   - **Selection Mode** - You can choose whether the user will only be able to select one user from the User Picker list (by selecting **Single**) or whether the user will be able to select multiple users (by selecting **Multiple**). 

      If you choose to allow the user to select multiple users, by selecting **Multiple** as the Selection mode, an additional option then displays - **Max users to select**. Here you can set a maximum number of users that can be selected - you can do this by either manually typing the number into the box or by clicking on the up/down buttons ![Up down buttons](/images/up-down-arrows.jpg) at the right-hand side of the box.

      ![User picker multiple](/images/user-picker-multiple.jpg)

      

   - **Default to current user** - You can choose to have the current user display in the User picker field once the form is opened to be edited. If you select '**Yes**', so the User picker field shows the current user by default, an additional option then displays - **Allow override picker value**.  

      ![User picker default to current user](/images/user-picker-default-current-user.jpg)

      If you choose **Yes** for **Allow override picker value**, this automatically allows the override of the user in the User Picker field.

      For example, in an 'Annual Leave Request' form, there could be an 'Employee Name' User picker field that defaults to the current user; but we may want the Employee's Manager to be able to override the name in this field if they are submitting an annual leave request on behalf of an employee.

   - **Member of group** - You can select the group from your data source that the user is a member of - for example HR Managers.

      In Kianda, Groups can be configured under the Administration menu - to learn more about how you can set up and edit Groups, go to [Users & Groups](/docs/platform/administration/users/).

   - **Selection options** - You can choose to enable the form user to choose a user or users from **Users** (all users), **Groups** (such as HR) or **Partners** - you can select as many of these three options as you like.

   - **Default selection option** - You can choose to have the default option displayed in the User picker field be **Users**, **Groups** or **Partners**

   - **Show selection option menu** - You can choose whether or not the selection option menu (where the form user can switch between **Users**, **Groups** and **Partners**) is shown on the right-hand side of the User picker field.

     If you choose **No**, there will not be a selection option menu:
     
     ![User picker without selection option menu](/images/user-picker-no-options.jpg)
     
     If you choose **Yes**, a selection option menu will be available to the form user to click (to change the list of users they can select from):
     
      ![User picker field with selection option menu](/images/user-picker-options.jpg)
     
     

4. Once you complete the **New field - User picker** dialog box and click **OK**, a new **User picker field** is added to your form, with the name you inserted as the **Title** in the dialog box (by default the title is **User picker 1** unless you change it). 

   In the example of our Training Request Form, the new User picker field (titled **Manager**) added to the form could look like this when a user views it on their mobile phone:

     ![File upload example mobile phone](/images/user-picker-mobile-example.jpg)

   

   To see how your form or field will look on a mobile, view it in **Mobile preview** by using the **Preview** option which can be opened by clicking the play button icon ![Preview](/images/preview.png). You also have the options to see how it will look on a PC or tablet.



### How to edit, move and delete User picker fields

As we go through the options available for editing a User picker field, we will keep in mind the example of the 'Manager' User picker field in the 'Training Request' form. 

#### How to edit a User picker field

To edit a **User picker field**, select the field (by either clicking on the field title or on the field's **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)) and then click on the **Edit field** button (Pen icon) ![Edit field button](/images/penicon.png).

![Select User picker field to edit](/images/user-picker-edit.jpg)



The **Edit field - User picker** dialog box will open, enabling you to choose from the same range of options as appear in the **New field - User picker** dialog box (as already discussed in [How to get started](/docs/platform/controls/input/user-picker#how-to-get-started)).

![Edit User picker field dialog box](/images/user-picker-edit-dialog.jpg)

You can make any changes you wish in this dialog box and then click **OK** to confirm. 

#### How to move a User picker field

To move a **User picker field**, simply select the field's **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png) and drag and drop the field wherever you want to move it to within your form.

![User picker drag handle](/images/user-picker-move.jpg)



#### How to delete a User picker field

To delete a **User picker field** from your form, simply select the field (by either clicking on the field's name or its **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)) click on the **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin icon](/images/binicon.png) and then click on **OK** to confirm.




### How to edit User picker field properties

To view or edit the field properties associated with a **User picker field**, select the field (by clicking on the field title or field drag handle button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)) - the **Field properties** menu will appear in the right-hand pane.

![User picker field properties](/images/user-picker-field-properties.jpg)



In the example shown here, a **User picker field** titled '**Manager**' has been selected and it's properties are displayed, including: its **Field type** (User picker), **Title**, that its Title will be shown in the form (the '**Show title**' checkbox is ticked), that it will be a mandatory field for users to complete (the '**Required**' checkbox is ticked and a red star is shown next to the field title), that this field will be enabled for users to complete (the '**Enabled**' checkbox is ticked), and that this field will be visible to form users (the '**Visible**' checkbox is ticked). The width of the field on PC and mobile is also shown - and can be changed - in the **Layout** section. 

To learn more about the different options within the Field properties menu, go to [Field Properties](/docs/platform/controls/properties#field-properties).



### Saving changes and version history ###

Make sure to save any changes you make by clicking on the **Save** button ![Save](/images/saveprocess.png). You will always have the option to revert back to previous versions of your form by clicking the **Design Version History** ![Version button](/images/version8.png) button in the top right corner.



### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

Now that you've learned about the **User picker control**, find out more about the other types of **Input fields** you can add to a Kianda process:

- [Date control](/docs/platform/controls/input/date/)
- [File upload control](/docs/platform/controls/input/file-upload/)
- [List control](/docs/platform/controls/input/list/)
- [Number control](/docs/platform/controls/input/number/)
- [Table control](/docs/platform/controls/input/table/)
- [Text box control](/docs/platform/controls/input/textbox/)
- [Toggle control](/docs/platform/controls/input/toggle/)

Commit message:

Added instruction re 'Member of group' & Selection options, 2 new images, new User tips section.
Inserted more detailed instruction about 'Member of group', 'Selection options', 'Default selection option' and 'Show selection option menu' in dialog box, 2 new images and new content about some typical rules that can be applied to User picker fields (per SME feedback).

content/docs/platform/controls/input/user-picker.md, after:

---
title: "User picker control"
weight: 8
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\..\static
---

The **User picker field** can be used in a form if you want the form user to select a user, multiple users or a group of users. You can format the User picker field so that, for example, the form user can choose any user, can only choose a user or users from a pre-configured group - for example, users in the HR Department - or can choose multiple users.

You can pre-define Groups on Kianda by using the Users function under Kianda Administration. To learn more about how you can set up and manage Groups, go to [Users & Groups](/docs/platform/administration/users/).

For example, in a 'Training Request' form, you may insert a **User picker field** titled 'Manager' so that the user can select their manager (who will subsequently need to approve or reject their training request once it has been submitted). 



## How to get started

1. To add a **User picker field** to a form, first open the relevant process. Then select the form within that process that you want to add the field to (so that the **Edit Form** button ![Edit form button](/images/penicon.png) is visible).

2. Insert the **User picker field** by clicking on **Controls** in the left-hand pane to expand the Controls menu, then select **Input** to view the range of Input controls and click on **User picker**. If you want to insert the new field into a panel in your form, first select the panel by clicking on the drag handle button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png) and then insert the new User picker field from the Controls menu.

	![Insert User picker field](/images/user-picker-insert.jpg)

3. A **New field - User picker** dialog box will open with a range of options you can choose from for your new User picker field.

   ![New field user picker dialog box](/images/user-picker-dialog.jpg)

   

   The options available include:

   - **Title** - You can change the name of the User picker field from the default ''**User picker 1**'

   - **Name (Unique)** - This is a unique name for the field

   - **Help text** - You can insert text to help the form user to complete the User Picker field. Taking the example of the 'Manager' User picker field in a 'Training Request' form, you could insert help text to this effect:

      ![User picker field help text example dialog box](/images/user-picker-helptext-example.jpg)

      If you add help text, a question mark ![Help text icon](/images/help-icon.jpg) icon will appear next to the field title and, if the user clicks on this, they will see the help text you have inserted.

      ![User picker field help text example icon](/images/user-picker-helptext-shown.jpg)

      

   - **Selection Mode** - You can choose whether the user will only be able to select one user from the User Picker list (by selecting **Single**) or whether the user will be able to select multiple users (by selecting **Multiple**). 

      If you choose to allow the user to select multiple users, by selecting **Multiple** as the Selection mode, an additional option then displays - **Max users to select**. Here you can set a maximum number of users that can be selected - you can do this by either manually typing the number into the box or by clicking on the up/down buttons ![Up down buttons](/images/up-down-arrows.jpg) at the right-hand side of the box.

      ![User picker multiple](/images/user-picker-multiple.jpg)

      

   - **Default to current user** - You can choose to have the current user display in the User picker field once the form is opened to be edited. If you select '**Yes**', so the User picker field shows the current user by default, an additional option then displays - **Allow override picker value**.  

      ![User picker default to current user](/images/user-picker-default-current-user.jpg)

      If you choose **Yes** for **Allow override picker value**, this automatically allows the override of the user in the User Picker field.

      For example, in an 'Annual Leave Request' form, there could be an 'Employee Name' User picker field that defaults to the current user; but we may want the Employee's Manager to be able to override the name in this field if they are submitting an annual leave request on behalf of an employee.

   - **Member of group** - You can choose to restrict the users available to be selected in the User picker field to a certain group - for example, only users in the HR Team. Alternatively, you can leave this field blank.

      When you click into the **Member of group** field, you will see a drop-down list of all of the Groups you can select:

      ![User picker field select Member of group](/images/user-picker-member-of-group.jpg)

      In Kianda, Groups can be configured under the Administration menu - to learn more about how you can set up and manage Groups, go to [Users & Groups](/docs/platform/administration/users/).

      For example, if you select 'HR Team', the end user completing the form will only be able to select users who are members of the 'HR Team' group in this User picker field.

   - **Selection options** - You can choose what selection options are available to the form user to the right of the User picker field. You can choose to show as many of these three selection options as like: **Users** (all users), **Groups** (such as HR) and **Partners**.

      For example, if you choose to make all three selection options available, your User picker field will have a drop-down menu to the right where the form user can switch between Users, Groups and Partners:

      ![Selection options in a User picker field](/images/user-picker-selection-options.jpg)

      **Note**: If you have inserted a Group in the **Member of group** field, this selection will limit the users or groups available to be selected in the User picker field, regardless of what **Selection options** you choose to make available to the form user.

   - **Default selection option** - You can choose to have a certain selection option displayed to the right of the User picker field by default - either **Users**, **Groups** or **Partners**.

   - **Show selection option menu** - You can choose whether or not the selection option menu (where the form user can switch between **Users**, **Groups** and **Partners**) is shown on the right-hand side of the User picker field.

     If you choose **No**, there will not be a selection option menu:
     
     ![User picker without selection option menu](/images/user-picker-no-options.jpg)
     
     If you choose **Yes**, a selection option menu will be available to the form user to click (to change the list of users they can select from):
     
      ![User picker field with selection option menu](/images/user-picker-options.jpg)
     
     

4. Once you complete the **New field - User picker** dialog box and click **OK**, a new **User picker field** is added to your form, with the name you inserted as the **Title** in the dialog box (by default the title is **User picker 1** unless you change it). 

   In the example of our Training Request Form, the new User picker field (titled **Manager**) added to the form could look like this when a user views it on their mobile phone:

     ![File upload example mobile phone](/images/user-picker-mobile-example.jpg)

   

   To see how your form or field will look on a mobile, view it in **Mobile preview** by using the **Preview** option which can be opened by clicking the play button icon ![Preview](/images/preview.png). You also have the options to see how it will look on a PC or tablet.



### How to edit, move and delete User picker fields

As we go through the options available for editing a User picker field, we will keep in mind the example of the 'Manager' User picker field in the 'Training Request' form. 

#### How to edit a User picker field

To edit a **User picker field**, select the field (by either clicking on the field title or on the field's **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)) and then click on the **Edit field** button (Pen icon) ![Edit field button](/images/penicon.png).

![Select User picker field to edit](/images/user-picker-edit.jpg)



The **Edit field - User picker** dialog box will open, enabling you to choose from the same range of options as appear in the **New field - User picker** dialog box (as already discussed in [How to get started](/docs/platform/controls/input/user-picker#how-to-get-started)).

![Edit User picker field dialog box](/images/user-picker-edit-dialog.jpg)

You can make any changes you wish in this dialog box and then click **OK** to confirm. 

#### How to move a User picker field

To move a **User picker field**, simply select the field's **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png) and drag and drop the field wherever you want to move it to within your form.

![User picker drag handle](/images/user-picker-move.jpg)



#### How to delete a User picker field

To delete a **User picker field** from your form, simply select the field (by either clicking on the field's name or its **Drag handle** button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)) click on the **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin icon](/images/binicon.png) and then click on **OK** to confirm.




### How to edit User picker field properties

To view or edit the field properties associated with a **User picker field**, select the field (by clicking on the field title or field drag handle button ![Drag handle button](/images/draghandlewhite-frame.png)) - the **Field properties** menu will appear in the right-hand pane.

![User picker field properties](/images/user-picker-field-properties.jpg)



In the example shown here, a **User picker field** titled '**Manager**' has been selected and it's properties are displayed, including: its **Field type** (User picker), **Title**, that its Title will be shown in the form (the '**Show title**' checkbox is ticked), that it will be a mandatory field for users to complete (the '**Required**' checkbox is ticked and a red star is shown next to the field title), that this field will be enabled for users to complete (the '**Enabled**' checkbox is ticked), and that this field will be visible to form users (the '**Visible**' checkbox is ticked). The width of the field on PC and mobile is also shown - and can be changed - in the **Layout** section. 

To learn more about the different options within the Field properties menu, go to [Field Properties](/docs/platform/controls/properties#field-properties).



### Saving changes and version history ###

Make sure to save any changes you make by clicking on the **Save** button ![Save](/images/saveprocess.png). You will always have the option to revert back to previous versions of your form by clicking the **Design Version History** ![Version button](/images/version8.png) button in the top right corner.



### User tips ![Target icon](/images/05.png) ###
Rules can be applied to User picker fields to make your form dynamic. Rules allow actions based upon conditions resulting from user interaction with fields. To learn about the different types of rules you can apply, go to [Rules](/docs/platform/rules/). 

For example, you could apply a [Set form field](/docs/platform/rules/data/set-form-field) rule so that the User picker field is set to be the current user or the user who started the process off.



### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

Now that you've learned about the **User picker control**, find out more about the other types of **Input fields** you can add to a Kianda process:

- [Date control](/docs/platform/controls/input/date/)
- [File upload control](/docs/platform/controls/input/file-upload/)
- [List control](/docs/platform/controls/input/list/)
- [Number control](/docs/platform/controls/input/number/)
- [Table control](/docs/platform/controls/input/table/)
- [Text box control](/docs/platform/controls/input/textbox/)
- [Toggle control](/docs/platform/controls/input/toggle/)
