content/docs/platform/administration/recyclebin.md, before:

---
title: "Recycle bin"
weight: 6
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

## Introduction

The **Recycle bin** function is available to **administrators** and is found in the left-hand side pane, under **Administration**. The recycle bin holds deleted process instances, dashboard pages and process designs. Deleted items are held for 30 days and are permanently deleted after this time.

### How to get started

To view items in the Recycle bin:

1. Click on **Administration** in the left-hand side pane and then click on **Recycle bin**. 

2. Search for an item by typing in key words into the **Search items** box for example 'Office'. 

3. You can view existing deleted items in the **Recycle bin** main view. 

   ![Recycle bin main view](/images/recycle-bin-view2.jpg)

   Deleted items are listed by:

   - **Item type** - this is the type of deleted item, for example a widget, process instance, datasource or page.
   - **Item details** - the name of the deleted item, for example the name of a process instance and the unique name (ID) for that process
   - **Deleted date** - the date the item was deleted
   - **Deleted by** - the name of the user who deleted the item.

   In the example above there is one process design, four dashboard pages and three process instances.

4. To restore an item click on the **Restore item** button ![Restore recycle bin button](/images/restore-bin-item.jpg) beside the item name. 

5. When you click on the button you will get a pop-up confirmation asking you to confirm that you want to restore that item.

   ![Restore item](/images/restore-item.jpg)

6. Click on **OK** if you wish to restore the item or **Cancel** to exit. If you click on **OK** the item is restored, for example a datasource appears again within the Datasource management main view when you click on **Administration** > **Data sources** in the left-hand pane. To learn more about this, see [Data sources](/docs/platform/administration/datasources).

   ![Datasource restored](/images/datasource-restored.jpg)

   



### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

To read more about how to create processes and form go to [Application Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/).

To read about other parts of the platform go to [Administration](/docs/platform/administration/).

To find out about help and support, go to [Help](/docs/platform/general/help/).

Commit message:

Feedback from Bartek
Reference the administration in toolbar orientation more often, bold some key words and fix a couple of typos.

content/docs/platform/administration/recyclebin.md, after:

---
title: "Recycle bin"
weight: 6
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

## Introduction

The **Recycle bin** function is available to **administrators** and is found in the left-hand side pane, or on the top right toolbar depending on the [chosen orientation](/docs/platform/administration/subscription/#general-settings), under **Administration**. The recycle bin holds deleted process instances, dashboard pages and process designs. Deleted items are held for 30 days and are permanently deleted after this time.

### How to get started

To view items in the Recycle bin:

1. Click on **Administration** in the left-hand side pane and then click on **Recycle bin**. 

2. Search for an item by typing in key words into the **Search items** box for example 'Office'. 

3. You can view existing deleted items in the **Recycle bin** main view. 

   ![Recycle bin main view](/images/recycle-bin-view2.jpg)

   Deleted items are listed by:

   - **Item type** - this is the type of deleted item, for example a widget, process instance, datasource or page.
   - **Item details** - the name of the deleted item, for example the name of a process instance and the unique name (ID) for that process
   - **Deleted date** - the date the item was deleted
   - **Deleted by** - the name of the user who deleted the item.

   In the example above there is one process design, four dashboard pages and three process instances.

4. To restore an item click on the **Restore item** button ![Restore recycle bin button](/images/restore-bin-item.jpg) beside the item name. 

5. When you click on the button you will get a pop-up confirmation asking you to confirm that you want to restore that item.

   ![Restore item](/images/restore-item.jpg)

6. Click on **OK** if you wish to restore the item or **Cancel** to exit. If you click on **OK** the item is restored, for example a datasource appears again within the Datasource management main view when you click on **Administration** > **Data sources** in the left-hand pane. To learn more about this, see [Data sources](/docs/platform/administration/datasources).

   ![Datasource restored](/images/datasource-restored.jpg)

   



### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

To read more about how to create processes and form go to [Application Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/).

To read about other parts of the platform go to [Administration](/docs/platform/administration/).

To find out about help and support, go to [Help](/docs/platform/general/help/).
