content/docs/platform/administration/scheduledtasks.md, before:

---
title: "Scheduled tasks"
weight: 5
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

The **Scheduled tasks** function is available to **administrators** and is found in the left-hand side pane, under **Administration**. The Scheduled tasks function allows you to schedule a task, that could be a process or a rule for example to send reminder emails.

## How to get started

To use the Scheduled tasks function:

1. Click on **Administration** in the left-hand side pane and then click on **Scheduled tasks**. 

2. You can view scheduled tasks via this function in the **Task automation** main tasks view. The current tasks listed is a subset of all tasks, see Step 4 below.

   ![Scheduled tasks view](/images/schedule-tasks-view.jpg)

   In this main view you can see:

   - the **Name** of the task
   - the **Schedule** for example weekly or monthly
   - when the task was **last run**
   - when the task will **next run**
   - the **status** of the task such as 'Complete'
   - the name of the associated **process** and process **instance** where relevant, and
   - **who** is the administrator of the task/who has created the task. 

   The buttons beside each task are:

   - **Trigger task manually** ![Trigger task manually](/images/trigger-task-manually.jpg) - clicking on this button instantly creates a new process instance/record by executing the task or process. This process instance can be viewed in a list widget in a dashboard.
   - **Show task history** ![Show task history](/images/show-task-history.jpg) - when you click on this button, a dialog box opens showing a list of all the past executions of the task, listed by date and time and status, for example if there was an error or if the task completed.
   - **Delete task** ![Delete task](/images/delete-task.jpg) - to delete a task from the list, click on this button. A popup will appear asking you to confirm if you want to remove the task or not. To continue with the deletion click on **OK**, otherwise click on **Cancel**.

3. Click on the name of a task to see the details of the task.

4. To see a complete list of scheduled tasks click on **Show All** ![Show All button](/images/show-all.jpg). This list will include all tasks that are running as a result of processes, for example scheduled reminders that are running as a result of rules in a process. Each item listed is a process instance related to a process, for example as shown in the image below. The process instances can be viewed in a [list widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/) in a dashboard.

   ![Scheduled tasks list](/images/scheduled-tasks.jpg)

   To see the shorter list again of tasks created via this function, click on **Show All** again. 

## Scheduling a task ##

1. To schedule a new task, click on the **Schedule a task** button ![Schedule a task button](/images/schedule-a-task.jpg). 

2. In the **Schedule a task** dialog box, select a **Task name** for the task and then a **schedule** choosing from  **One time**, or a periodic schedule from: **Minutes**, **Hourly**, **Daily**, **Weekly**, **Monthly** or **On demand**.

   ![Scheduled tasks view](/images/schedule-tasks-box.jpg)

3. Depending on which option you choose, different **time modes** or ways of scheduling the task will be presented:

   - **One time** - choose from **Absolute** or **Relative from now** as shown in the image above. Choosing **Absolute** means the time starts at the date and time entered into the date and time field, choosing **Relative from now** means you can choose that the schedule starts in X number of **days**, **hours** and **mins**. 

   - **Minutes** - enter a numeric value into the minutes box

   - **Hourly** - enter a numeric value into the minutes and **Every** field, to set a recurring schedule, see image below:

     ![Hourly schedule option](/images/hours-schedule.jpg)

   - **Daily** - enter a time in the **At** field, a numeric value in the **Every** field, to set a recurring schedule and check the checkbox for **Week days** **only** to only schedule the task on weekdays.

   - **Weekly** - enter a day of the week in the **Week day** field, a time in the **At** field, and a numeric value in the **Every** field.

   - **Monthly** - enter a numeric value in the **Day** field to set what day of the month, or choose values to set when the task should happen for example, the **First** **Monday** of a month, as shown in the image below.  Also select a time in the **At** field, and a numeric value in the **Every** field.

      ![Monthly schedule option](/images/schedule-monthly.jpg)
      
   - **On demand** - if you choose this option then a **Task Webhook URL** field will appear. If you click on **OK** the URL is generated by the system. This will send a POST request to the generated URL to trigger the task on demand. If you add an optional instanceID parameter you can run the task on a specific instance. 

4. For each time mode chosen, you can check the **Expire** checkbox, and from there set if you want the schedule to end **By** a particular date and time or **After** a set number of occurrences.

   ![Set task expiry](/images/task-expiry.jpg)

5. For each time mode chosen, select a process from the **Process design** dropdown list.

6. For each time mode chosen, for **Process ID** leave the field empty if it is a new task or enter the process ID for a given record/process instance.

7. When you have finished editing the **Schedule a task** dialog box, click on **OK** or click on **Close** at any time to exit the dialog box.

   

### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

To read more about how to create processes and forms go to [Application Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/).

To find out about help and support, go to [Help](/docs/platform/general/help/).

Commit message:

Feedback from Bartek
Reference the administration in toolbar orientation more often, bold some key words and fix a couple of typos.

content/docs/platform/administration/scheduledtasks.md, after:

---
title: "Scheduled tasks"
weight: 5
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

The **Scheduled tasks** function is available to **administrators** and is found in the left-hand side pane, or on the top right toolbar depending on the [chosen orientation](/docs/platform/administration/subscription/#general-settings), under **Administration**. The Scheduled tasks function allows you to schedule a task, that could be a process or a rule for example to send reminder emails.

## How to get started

To use the Scheduled tasks function:

1. Click on **Administration** in the left-hand side pane and then click on **Scheduled tasks**. 

2. You can view scheduled tasks via this function in the **Task automation** main tasks view. The current tasks listed is a subset of all tasks, see Step 4 below.

   ![Scheduled tasks view](/images/schedule-tasks-view.jpg)

   In this main view you can see:

   - the **Name** of the task
   - the **Schedule** for example weekly or monthly
   - when the task was **last run**
   - when the task will **next run**
   - the **status** of the task such as 'Complete'
   - the name of the associated **process** and process **instance** where relevant, and
   - **who** is the administrator of the task/who has created the task. 

   The buttons beside each task are:

   - **Trigger task manually** ![Trigger task manually](/images/trigger-task-manually.jpg) - clicking on this button instantly creates a new process instance/record by executing the task or process. This process instance can be viewed in a list widget in a dashboard.
   - **Show task history** ![Show task history](/images/show-task-history.jpg) - when you click on this button, a dialog box opens showing a list of all the past executions of the task, listed by date and time and status, for example if there was an error or if the task completed.
   - **Delete task** ![Delete task](/images/delete-task.jpg) - to delete a task from the list, click on this button. A popup will appear asking you to confirm if you want to remove the task or not. To continue with the deletion click on **OK**, otherwise click on **Cancel**.

3. Click on the name of a task to see the details of the task.

4. To see a complete list of scheduled tasks click on **Show All** ![Show All button](/images/show-all.jpg). This list will include all tasks that are running as a result of processes, for example scheduled reminders that are running as a result of rules in a process. Each item listed is a process instance related to a process, for example as shown in the image below. The process instances can be viewed in a [list widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/) in a dashboard.

   ![Scheduled tasks list](/images/scheduled-tasks.jpg)

   To see the shorter list again of tasks created via this function, click on **Show All** again. 

## Scheduling a task ##

1. To schedule a new task, click on the **Schedule a task** button ![Schedule a task button](/images/schedule-a-task.jpg). 

2. In the **Schedule a task** dialog box, select a **Task name** for the task and then a **schedule** choosing from  **One time**, or a periodic schedule from: **Minutes**, **Hourly**, **Daily**, **Weekly**, **Monthly** or **On demand**.

   ![Scheduled tasks view](/images/schedule-tasks-box.jpg)

3. Depending on which option you choose, different **time modes** or ways of scheduling the task will be presented:

   - **One time** - choose from **Absolute** or **Relative from now** as shown in the image above. Choosing **Absolute** means the time starts at the date and time entered into the date and time field, choosing **Relative from now** means you can choose that the schedule starts in X number of **days**, **hours** and **mins**. 

   - **Minutes** - enter a numeric value into the minutes box

   - **Hourly** - enter a numeric value into the minutes and **Every** field, to set a recurring schedule, see image below:

     ![Hourly schedule option](/images/hours-schedule.jpg)

   - **Daily** - enter a time in the **At** field, a numeric value in the **Every** field, to set a recurring schedule and check the checkbox for **Week days** **only** to only schedule the task on weekdays.

   - **Weekly** - enter a day of the week in the **Week day** field, a time in the **At** field, and a numeric value in the **Every** field.

   - **Monthly** - enter a numeric value in the **Day** field to set what day of the month, or choose values to set when the task should happen for example, the **First** **Monday** of a month, as shown in the image below.  Also select a time in the **At** field, and a numeric value in the **Every** field.

      ![Monthly schedule option](/images/schedule-monthly.jpg)
      
   - **On demand** - if you choose this option then a **Task Webhook URL** field will appear. If you click on **OK** the URL is generated by the system. This will send a POST request to the generated URL to trigger the task on demand. If you add an optional instanceID parameter you can run the task on a specific instance. 

4. For each time mode chosen, you can check the **Expire** checkbox, and from there set if you want the schedule to end **By** a particular date and time or **After** a set number of occurrences.

   ![Set task expiry](/images/task-expiry.jpg)

5. For each time mode chosen, select a process from the **Process design** dropdown list.

6. For each time mode chosen, for **Process ID** leave the field empty if it is a new task or enter the process ID for a given record/process instance.

7. When you have finished editing the **Schedule a task** dialog box, click on **OK** or click on **Close** at any time to exit the dialog box.

   

### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

To read more about how to create processes and forms go to [Application Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/).

To find out about help and support, go to [Help](/docs/platform/general/help/).
