content/docs/platform/administration/subscription.md, before:

---
title: "Subscription"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

The **Subscription** function is available to **administrators** and is found in the left-hand side pane, under **Administration**. This function allows you to update the look and feel of your workspace, set regional, mobile and single sign-on settings and design the login page.

## How to get started

To view use the Scheduled tasks function:

1. Click on **Administration** in the left-hand side pane and then click on **Subscription**. 

2. You can view any current tasks in the main tasks view. 

   ![Subscription view](/images/subscription-page.jpg)

   In this view you can typically make changes to six areas:

   - **Look and Feel** allows you to change the look and feel for your workspace, for example adding company logos. 
   - **Design Login Page** allows you to design the login page for your workspace for example to change,  background and font colours and add taglines.
   - **Regional Settings** allows you to set your operational **time zone** and **regional settings**, such as English Ireland for language.
   - **Mobile Settings** allows you to customise how the Kianda workspace will appear as a mobile app.
   - **Subscription Details**
   - **Single Sign-On (SSO)** 

   These areas are covered in more detail in the sections below.

3. Click on a particular area to edit details or click on **Open Wizard** to use a wizard to edit **Look and Feel**, **Design Login Page**, **Regional Settings**, and **Mobile Settings**.

Details on each area are available below.



## Look and Feel
You can access this section by clicking on **Open Wizard** > **Look and Feel** or by clicking on **Look and Feel** in the main **Subscription** page. 

 ![Look and feel](/images/look-and-feel.jpg)

**Note**: Logo sizes are 200 x 65px for a full-sized logo and 45 x 45px for a collapsed logo. You can also select a colour scheme under Themes and preview the results under Workspace preview on the right.

Details for each of the areas within the page - [Logos][#logos], [Layout](#layout). [Themes](#themes) and [CSS](#css) are available below. Make sure to click on **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made. 



### Logos ###

To add a logo for your company:

1. Click on **Browse** beside **Logo Url** to browse for a logo to add from your PC or network. The recommended size is 200px x 65px.
2. To add a logo that will appear when the left-hand side menu is collapsed, click on **Browse** beside **Collapsed Logo URL** to browse for a a logo to add from your PC or network. The recommended size is 45px x 45px. 



### Layout ###

The options for your workspace layout are:

- **Boxed** - moving the slider across to enable a boxed layout, that is the workspace appears in a box in the browser, with space appearing around the box and centred content.

  ![Boxed layout](/images/boxed-layout.jpg)

- **RTL** - moved the slider across to enable a right-to-left (RTL) layout, that is text, layout, icons and so on are right -hand based. 

- **Disable Zoom on Mobile** - move the slider across to enable the 'disable zoom on mobile' option, which means that the zooming option is disabled on mobile web pages.

- **Welcome page** - click on the **Change** button ![Change button](/images/change-button.jpg) to change the Welcome page for users of your Kianda workspace.  The **Update welcome page** dialog box opens where you can click on the drop-down list under **New welcome page** to choose a new welcome page, from the Home page and dashboards. 

  ![Update welcome page dialog box](/images/update-welcome-page.jpg)

  Click on **OK** to save changes or **Close** to exit the dialog box at any time.



### Themes ###

Click on a Theme of choice, options range from two-tone layouts, to those with a dark left-hand side menu as shown in the middle of the image below. 

![Themes](/images/themes.jpg)



### CSS ###

In this section you can modify the **Global CSS File** to make changes to the look and feel of the site as well as processes. Here you can access the existing CSS details by clicking on the on the **ellipsis** button ![Ellipsis button](/images/expression.jpg) to open a CSS Editor and add to those details, or click on **Browse** to browse for a CSS file. See [Global CSS file](/images//docs/low-code/global-css-file/) for more details. 

Make sure to click on **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.



## Design Login Page

This section allows you to design the login page, choose background and font colours and complete fields for Taglines.

![Design login page](/images/design-login-page.jpg)

On this page you can make the following changes:

- **Login Page Logo Url** - add/change a logo for the login page to Kianda by clicking on **Browse** to browse for a logo on your PC or network.

- **Background Color** - to create a background colour for the login page, you can either click on the colour itself and select a colour in the main view, or using the slider, or type in an RGB, HSL or HEX value in the fields above, or click in the box beside it to add in a HEX value for a colour, for example #BFBFBF.

  ![Background Color](/images/background-color.jpg)

- **Font Color** - as with the Background Color, to create a font colour, choose an appropriate colour using the colour box itself or type in a value in the field beside the colour.

- **Tagline 1** - type in the first tagline that will appear on the login page. A maximum of 25 characters is recommended.

- **Tagline 2** - type in the second tagline that will appear on the login page. A maximum of 20 characters is recommended.

  ![Taglines](/images/taglines.jpg)

When you are finished making changes click on ** **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.



## Regional Settings

Here you can set your operational time zone and regional settings, such as English Ireland, from the dropdown.

![Regional settings](/images/regional-settings.jpg)

On this page you can make the following changes:

- **Regional settings** - choose a language setting from the drop-down list.
- **Time zone** - choose a time zone from the drop-down list.

When you are finished making changes click on ** **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.

The chosen options are reflected in the text below the fields, for example **date and time format**.



## Mobile Settings

Here you can customise how the Kianda workspace will appear as a mobile app. You can choose your App name, App short name, Splash Screen Colour, and Theme Colour and upload a mobile size icon (note the icon size is 512 x 512 px).

![Mobile settings](/images/mobile-settings.jpg)

On this page you can make the following changes:

- **App name** - add/change a name for your app/workspace. A maximum of 45 characters is recommended.

- **App short name** - add/change a  short name for your app/workspace. A maximum of 12 characters is recommended.

- **Splash Screen Color** - to set the introductory screen colour that appears while your application loads (splash screen), you can either click on the colour itself and select a colour in the main view, or using the slider, or type in an RGB, HSL or HEX value in the fields above, or click in the box beside it to add in a HEX value for a colour, for example #037dd3.

  ![Splash screen color](/images/splash-screen-color.jpg)

- **Theme Color** - as with the Splash Screen Color, choose an appropriate colour for the mobile app theme font using the colour box itself or type in a value in the field beside the colour.

- **Mobile Icon** - click on **Browse** to browse for a logo to add from your PC or network. The recommended size is 512px x 512px.

When you are finished making changes click on **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.



## Subscription Details

General settings include details like your company name, subscription ID, renewal date and business identity (your workspace URL, for example, green-itr.kianda.com). You can also enable a Global SMTP Mail Connector to enable email flow to/from your Kianda workspace.

Within general settings administrators can set who the Global Administrator is, or the main administrator for the workspace.

![Subscription details](/images/company-details.jpg)

### Company details

On this page you can make the following changes:

- **Company Name** - add in your company name.
- **Business identity** - the business identity for your company workspace is automatically added in. 
- **Country** - choose a country from the drop-down list.
- **City** - choose a city from the drop-down list.
- **Address** - add in your company address.
- **Renewal date** - your subscription renewal date is automatically added in.
- **Subscription Id** - your company subscription identity is automatically generated. This is needed when you need to perform authorisation to use Instance API.
- **Address** - add in your company address.



### General settings



## Single Sign-On (SSO)

Enabling Single-Sign-On allows the user to login via a Single-Sign-On connector. This connector could be Office365 or SAML 2.0. To enable Single-Sign-On, please follow the below steps:

As an administrator, go to the left-hand pane and click on Administration > Subscription > Single Sign-on.
Click the radio button for ‘Enable Single-Sign-On’ Yes.
Select an SSO Provider from the list provided.

At any time, you can go to Side menu > Subscription to edit any of these settings or to manage Subscription Details, Payment Details and Single Sign-on.





### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

To read more about how to create processes and forms go to [Application Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/).

Commit message:

Added global SMTP to subscription

content/docs/platform/administration/subscription.md, after:

---
title: "Subscription"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

The **Subscription** function is available to **administrators** and is found in the left-hand side pane, under **Administration**. This function allows you to update the look and feel of your workspace, set regional, mobile and single sign-on settings and design the login page.

## How to get started

To view use the Scheduled tasks function:

1. Click on **Administration** in the left-hand side pane and then click on **Subscription**. 

2. You can view any current tasks in the main tasks view. 

   ![Subscription view](/images/subscription-page.jpg)

   In this view you can typically make changes to six areas:

   - **Look and Feel** allows you to change the look and feel for your workspace, for example adding company logos. 
   - **Design Login Page** allows you to design the login page for your workspace for example to change,  background and font colours and add taglines.
   - **Regional Settings** allows you to set your operational **time zone** and **regional settings**, such as English Ireland for language.
   - **Mobile Settings** allows you to customise how the Kianda workspace will appear as a mobile app.
   - **Subscription Details**
   - **Single Sign-On (SSO)** 

   These areas are covered in more detail in the sections below.

3. Click on a particular area to edit details or click on **Open Wizard** to use a wizard to edit **Look and Feel**, **Design Login Page**, **Regional Settings**, and **Mobile Settings**.

Details on each area are available below.



## Look and Feel
You can access this section by clicking on **Open Wizard** > **Look and Feel** or by clicking on **Look and Feel** in the main **Subscription** page. 

 ![Look and feel](/images/look-and-feel.jpg)

**Note**: Logo sizes are 200 x 65px for a full-sized logo and 45 x 45px for a collapsed logo. You can also select a colour scheme under Themes and preview the results under Workspace preview on the right.

Details for each of the areas within the page - [Logos][#logos], [Layout](#layout). [Themes](#themes) and [CSS](#css) are available below. Make sure to click on **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made. 



### Logos ###

To add a logo for your company:

1. Click on **Browse** beside **Logo Url** to browse for a logo to add from your PC or network. The recommended size is 200px x 65px.
2. To add a logo that will appear when the left-hand side menu is collapsed, click on **Browse** beside **Collapsed Logo URL** to browse for a a logo to add from your PC or network. The recommended size is 45px x 45px. 



### Layout ###

The options for your workspace layout are:

- **Boxed** - moving the slider across to enable a boxed layout, that is the workspace appears in a box in the browser, with space appearing around the box and centred content.

  ![Boxed layout](/images/boxed-layout.jpg)

- **RTL** - moved the slider across to enable a right-to-left (RTL) layout, that is text, layout, icons and so on are right -hand based. 

- **Disable Zoom on Mobile** - move the slider across to enable the 'disable zoom on mobile' option, which means that the zooming option is disabled on mobile web pages.

- **Welcome page** - click on the **Change** button ![Change button](/images/change-button.jpg) to change the Welcome page for users of your Kianda workspace.  The **Update welcome page** dialog box opens where you can click on the drop-down list under **New welcome page** to choose a new welcome page, from the Home page and dashboards. 

  ![Update welcome page dialog box](/images/update-welcome-page.jpg)

  Click on **OK** to save changes or **Close** to exit the dialog box at any time.



### Themes ###

Click on a Theme of choice, options range from two-tone layouts, to those with a dark left-hand side menu as shown in the middle of the image below. 

![Themes](/images/themes.jpg)



### CSS ###

In this section you can modify the **Global CSS File** to make changes to the look and feel of the site as well as processes. Here you can access the existing CSS details by clicking on the on the **ellipsis** button ![Ellipsis button](/images/expression.jpg) to open a CSS Editor and add to those details, or click on **Browse** to browse for a CSS file. See [Global CSS file](/images//docs/low-code/global-css-file/) for more details. 

Make sure to click on **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.



## Design Login Page

This section allows you to design the login page, choose background and font colours and complete fields for Taglines.

![Design login page](/images/design-login-page.jpg)

On this page you can make the following changes:

- **Login Page Logo Url** - add/change a logo for the login page to Kianda by clicking on **Browse** to browse for a logo on your PC or network.

- **Background Color** - to create a background colour for the login page, you can either click on the colour itself and select a colour in the main view, or using the slider, or type in an RGB, HSL or HEX value in the fields above, or click in the box beside it to add in a HEX value for a colour, for example #BFBFBF.

  ![Background Color](/images/background-color.jpg)

- **Font Color** - as with the Background Color, to create a font colour, choose an appropriate colour using the colour box itself or type in a value in the field beside the colour.

- **Tagline 1** - type in the first tagline that will appear on the login page. A maximum of 25 characters is recommended.

- **Tagline 2** - type in the second tagline that will appear on the login page. A maximum of 20 characters is recommended.

  ![Taglines](/images/taglines.jpg)

When you are finished making changes click on ** **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.



## Regional Settings

Here you can set your operational time zone and regional settings, such as English Ireland, from the dropdown.

![Regional settings](/images/regional-settings.jpg)

On this page you can make the following changes:

- **Regional settings** - choose a language setting from the drop-down list.
- **Time zone** - choose a time zone from the drop-down list.

When you are finished making changes click on ** **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.

The chosen options are reflected in the text below the fields, for example **date and time format**.



## Mobile Settings

Here you can customise how the Kianda workspace will appear as a mobile app. You can choose your App name, App short name, Splash Screen Colour, and Theme Colour and upload a mobile size icon (note the icon size is 512 x 512 px).

![Mobile settings](/images/mobile-settings.jpg)

On this page you can make the following changes:

- **App name** - add/change a name for your app/workspace. A maximum of 45 characters is recommended.

- **App short name** - add/change a  short name for your app/workspace. A maximum of 12 characters is recommended.

- **Splash Screen Color** - to set the introductory screen colour that appears while your application loads (splash screen), you can either click on the colour itself and select a colour in the main view, or using the slider, or type in an RGB, HSL or HEX value in the fields above, or click in the box beside it to add in a HEX value for a colour, for example #037dd3.

  ![Splash screen color](/images/splash-screen-color.jpg)

- **Theme Color** - as with the Splash Screen Color, choose an appropriate colour for the mobile app theme font using the colour box itself or type in a value in the field beside the colour.

- **Mobile Icon** - click on **Browse** to browse for a logo to add from your PC or network. The recommended size is 512px x 512px.

When you are finished making changes click on **Save Changes** ![Save changes button](/images/save-changes.jpg)to save any changes made and click on **Back** to go back to the **Subscription** page.



## Subscription Details

General settings include details like your company name, subscription ID, renewal date and business identity (your workspace URL, for example, green-itr.kianda.com). You can also enable a Global SMTP Mail Connector to enable email flow to/from your Kianda workspace.

Within general settings administrators can set who the Global Administrator is, or the main administrator for the workspace.

![Subscription details](/images/company-details.jpg)

### Company details

in this section you can make the following changes:

- **Company Name** - add in your company name.
- **Business identity** - the business identity for your company workspace is automatically added in. 
- **Country** - choose a country from the drop-down list.
- **City** - choose a city from the drop-down list.
- **Address** - add in your company address.
- **Renewal date** - your subscription renewal date is automatically added in.
- **Subscription Id** - your company subscription identity is automatically generated. This is needed when you need to perform authorisation to use Instance API.
- **Address** - add in your company address.



### General settings

In this section you can make the following changes:

- **Enable Global SMTP Mail Connector** - set a global SMTP connector used to send emails. The global connector will ignore all other connectors and will no longer use no-reply@kianda.com as a sender. To learn more about email connector and how to set up a SMTP, go to [Email connector](/docs/platform/connectors/email/).
- **Global Administrator** - change the global administrator of your company's Kianda platform from the list of users that are in it.
- **Global JavaScript** - allows you to create a JavaScript file with custom functions as helper or action functions allowing you to perform any functionality you may want. The file is accessible globally and will load when the application first starts. 

## Single Sign-On (SSO)

Enabling Single-Sign-On allows the user to login via a Single-Sign-On connector. This connector could be Office365 or SAML 2.0. To enable Single-Sign-On, please follow the below steps:

As an administrator, go to the left-hand pane and click on Administration > Subscription > Single Sign-on.
Click the radio button for ‘Enable Single-Sign-On’ Yes.
Select an SSO Provider from the list provided.

At any time, you can go to Side menu > Subscription to edit any of these settings or to manage Subscription Details, Payment Details and Single Sign-on.





### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

To read more about how to create processes and forms go to [Application Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/).
