content/docs/low-code/client-connector/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Client Connector"
linkTitle: "Client Connector"
weight: 9
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static

---

# Introduction 

The Client connector function allows Kianda users to create customised data source connectors thereby allowing Kianda to push to, use and pull information from external data sources.

Please note: Client Connectors are now available for use in **beta mode** .


Please note that you must have an **Administrator** or **Developer** role to access the **Developer** function under **Administration** to a) create a client connector, b) have an **Administrator** or **Manage datasources** role to access **Data sources** to configure the customised connector and c) have an **Administrator** or **Design business process** role to utilise the customised configured connector within a process design.

## Features

The new Client connector function has the following features:

- Customizable data source connector
- Editable UI and JavaScript code similar to custom rules/widgets/fields
- Ability to alter the query payload 
- Add new custom data source settings 
- Sensitive data encryption in each call

Commit message:

Updates to client connector pages

content/docs/low-code/client-connector/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Client Connector"
linkTitle: "Client Connector development"
weight: 9
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static

---

# Introduction 

The **Client connector** function allows Kianda users to create customised data source connectors thereby allowing Kianda to push to, use and pull information from external data sources.  

**Note**: Client Connectors are now available for use in **beta mode** .

A set of predefined data connectors are available under **Administration** and **Data sources**, however this new feature found under **Developer resources**, will allow an organisation to build their own connector to any external system beyond the predefined list.

![Client connector under Developer resources](/images/client-connector.jpg)

Please note you must have the correct level of role to **create** and **use** the client connector, where typically **Developers** create the customised connector, while **Designers** use the customised connector in process creation and edit. **Administrators** can implement all activities. 

## Features

The new Client connector function has the following features:

- Customizable data source connector
- Editable UI and JavaScript code similar to custom [rules](/docs/low-code/rule-widget/), [dashboard widgets](/docs/low-code/dashboard-widget/) and [fields](/docs/low-code/dashboard-widget/)
- Ability to alter the query payload 
- Add new custom data source settings 
- Sensitive data encryption in each call

## What's next ![Idea icon](/images/18.png)

To start creating a Client connector go to [Creating a custom connector](/docs/low-code/client-connector/how-to-create/).

To create other widgets go to [Custom rule development](/docs/low-code/rule-widget/), [Custom field development](/docs/low-code/field-widget/) and [Custom dashboard widget](/docs/low-code/dashboard-widget/) pages to find out more.
