content/docs/platform/application-designer/process/properties.md, before:

---
title: "Process properties"
weight: "3"
linkTitle: "Process properties"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\..\static
---

Every process, form and control, such as text boxes and lists, will have **properties** visible in the right-hand pane of the [Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/designer/) view. 

## Process properties ##
When you go to **Administration** > **Designer** > click on a process > **Process properties** in the right-hand pane, you will see the properties for the chosen process.

The following properties are visible:

- Title - the title of process for example Quarterly Training Request
- Page layout - you can click on **Wide** ![Wide button](/images/wide-resized.png) or **Narrow**  ![Narrow button](/images/narrow-resized.png) to change the layout.
![Process and form properties](/images/formlayout_resized.png) 

In the image above, the process 'Quarterly Training Request' has 2 forms 'Training Request' and 'Training Approval'. Clicking on one of these forms will show the [Form properties](#form-properties). 



## Form properties ##
When you click on a form, the **Form properties** appear in the right-hand pane.

![Form properties](/images/formproperties_resized.png)

The following properties are visible:

- Title - the form title, for example Training Request

- Visible - click on this checkbox if you want the form to be visible to users

- Show info - click on this checkbox if you want to show information, for example who are the form owners, the design version and when the form was started and completed. This information will pop up at the bottom of the form.

  ![Form information](/images/forminfo_resized.png)

Underneath form properties you will see **Form submit rules**, go to [Rules](/docs/platform/rules/) to find out more about Form rules.

Click on a control field, for example a text box, in the form to see [Field properties](#field-properties). 



## Field properties ##
When you click on any field, such as User picker, list or text box, the field properties appear in the right-hand pane.
![Field properties](/images/fieldproperties_resized.png)

The **Field type**, in the example above, **Text box**, is shown along with the **Title** of the field, in the example above, this is Employee Name.

The options within properties are:

- Show Title - show the title of the field
- Required - tick this checkbox to make this field mandatory for users to fill out
- Enabled - tick this checkbox to make the field enabled for users to fill out
- Visible - tick this checkbox to make the field visible to users
- Layout - change the width of the field by clicking on the bar in the Layout box until you see the desired size. Click on the arrow beside Layout to see the Mobile Layout and click on the bar to change the width of the text box for mobile use.

![Changing text box width](/images/textboxsize-frame.png) 

Underneath field properties you will see **Rules**, go to [Rules](/docs/platform/rules/) to find out more about Field rules.

Commit message:

Duplicate meta description issues fixed

content/docs/platform/application-designer/process/properties.md, after:

---
title: "Process properties"
weight: "3"
linkTitle: "Process properties"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\..\static
description: "Kianda low-code development platform - Process Properties"
---

In Kianda every process, every form and every control field such as text boxes and lists, will have **properties** visible in the right-hand pane of the [Designer](/docs/platform/application-designer/designer/) view.

## Process properties ##
When you go to **Administration** > **Designer** > click on a process > **Process properties** in the right-hand pane, you will see the properties for the chosen process.

The following properties are visible:

- Title - the title of process for example Quarterly Training Request
- Page layout - you can click on **Wide** ![Wide button](/images/wide-resized.png) or **Narrow**  ![Narrow button](/images/narrow-resized.png) to change the layout.
![Process and form properties](/images/formlayout_resized.png) 

In the image above, the process 'Quarterly Training Request' has 2 forms 'Training Request' and 'Training Approval'. Clicking on one of these forms will show the [Form properties](#form-properties). 



## Form properties ##
When you click on a form, the **Form properties** appear in the right-hand pane.

![Form properties](/images/formproperties_resized.png)

The following properties are visible:

- Title - the form title, for example Training Request

- Visible - click on this checkbox if you want the form to be visible to users

- Show info - click on this checkbox if you want to show information, for example who are the form owners, the design version and when the form was started and completed. This information will pop up at the bottom of the form.

  ![Form information](/images/forminfo_resized.png)

Underneath form properties you will see **Form submit rules**, go to [Rules](/docs/platform/rules/) to find out more about Form rules.

Click on a control field, for example a text box, in the form to see [Field properties](#field-properties). 



## Field properties ##
When you click on any field, such as User picker, list or text box, the field properties appear in the right-hand pane.
![Field properties](/images/fieldproperties_resized.png)

The **Field type**, in the example above, **Text box**, is shown along with the **Title** of the field, in the example above, this is Employee Name.

The options within properties are:

- Show Title - show the title of the field
- Required - tick this checkbox to make this field mandatory for users to fill out
- Enabled - tick this checkbox to make the field enabled for users to fill out
- Visible - tick this checkbox to make the field visible to users
- Layout - change the width of the field by clicking on the bar in the Layout box until you see the desired size. Click on the arrow beside Layout to see the Mobile Layout and click on the bar to change the width of the text box for mobile use.

![Changing text box width](/images/textboxsize-frame.png) 

Underneath field properties you will see **Rules**, go to [Rules](/docs/platform/rules/) to find out more about Field rules.
