content/docs/platform/pages/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Dashboard pages"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

Kianda **dashboards** deliver a convenient way to provide insights into how your business processes are performing. Dashboards offer easy reporting, permissions management, quick build, condition-based filtering and many more useful features.

From lists to tiles, filters and charts, dashboards allow you to build full digital experiences to monitor your real-time processes in a few minutes. 

There are 3 steps involved in creating a dashboard:

1. Create a dashboard page.
2. Add one or more widgets.
3. Configure or edit the widgets to make the page look the way you want.

If you are using Kianda predefined processes from the App Store, then dashboards have already been created for you! These are available by clicking on **Dashboard** from the main side menu or left-hand pane.

Before you begin, it is important to be aware that there are **two modes** involved in dashboard pages, an [Edit mode and View mode](#edit-mode-and-view-mode) as described below.



## Edit mode and View mode ##

When using dashboards, there are two modes: **Edit mode** and **View mode**.

### Dashboards View mode ###
When you are in **View mode**, the **Edit** button ![Edit button](/images/edit.png) will be visible to the right in the top menu bar.

![View mode](/images/dashboardgeneral.png)

### Dashboards Edit mode ###
When you click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) you will be in **Edit mode**. When you are viewing a page in **Edit mode**, these options will be available to you along the top of the dashboard page:

- the **Widget menu** where you can insert any of the seven available dashboard widgets
- the **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png) to make changes to the dashboard page
- the **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin button](/images/binicon.png) to delete the dashboard page

![Page edit mode](/images/editmode.png)

In **Edit mode,** you can also make changes to widgets, such as to Kianda predefined dashboards from the App Store, using the **Update configuration** ![Pen button](/images/pen.png), **Settings** ![Cog button](/images/cog.png)and **Delete** ![Bin button](/images/bin.png) buttons.

If you want to create a dashboard page from scratch go to [How to create a dashboard page](#how-to-create-a-dashboard-page) or if you want to learn more about dashboard widgets go to [Dashboard widgets](#dashboard-widgets).



## How to create a Dashboard page ##

Kianda offers a user-friendly interface to create dashboards in minutes. This video covers the steps for creating a new dashboard:

<video width="100%" style="width:100%" controls>
    <source src="/videos/updated_introduction_dashboard.mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </source>
</video>


To create a new Dashboard page:

1. Click on **Home** ![Home button](/images/dashboard-home.jpg) in the left-hand pane
2. Click on the **Create a new page** icon ![Create a new page](/images/dashboard-create-new-page.jpg)
3. A **Create dashboard page** dialog box will open, allowing you to choose from a range of options for your new dashboard page:

	![Create dashboard page dialog box](/images/dashboard-dialog.jpg)

The options in the **Create dashboard page** dialog box include:

- **Title** - The title of the dashboard page. You can insert whatever title you want - for example, 'Training Requests'.

- **Name** - This is a unique name for the dashboard.

- **Visible to** - You can decide who will be able see the dashboard. You can select single or multiple users or Groups or a combination of the two (as shown here):

  ![Dashboard page visible to](/images/dashboard-visible-to.jpg)

- **Icon** - You can choose an icon for your dashboard page from a drop-down list of hundreds of available icons. 

  ![Dashboard icon drop down menu](/images/dashboard-icon.jpg)

  The icon you select will appear next to the dashboard title when you click on **Dashboard** in the left side menu to view all of the available dashboards:

  ![Dashboard page icon example](/images/dashboard-icon-example.jpg)

- **Sort order** - Choose a numeric value - by either typing it into the field or by clicking on the up down arrows at the right of the field ![Up down arrows](/images/up-down-arrows.jpg) - for the place you want this dashboard to go in terms of the order of the dashboard pages in your main left side menu. 

- **Group** - You can choose to group this dashboard as a sub-page of an existing dashboard page. If you want to do this, insert the name of the dashboard page you want to group this new dashboard page under.

- **Enable favourites** - Select this checkbox if you want to insert an '**Add to favourites**' button to the top menu in the dashboard. 

  Once you complete the **Create dashboard page** dialog box and click **OK**, and then click the **Save** button ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg)in the top dashboard menu, a new '**Add to favourites**' button will be added to your top dashboard menu:

  ![Dashboard Add to favourites button being clicked](/images/dashboard-favourites-button.jpg)

  If you want to add the current dashboard to your favourites:

  - Click the **Add to favourites** button ![Dashboard Add to favourites button star icon](/images/dashboard-favourites-star.jpg)

  - Complete the **Add to favourite** dialog box that opens and then click the **Add favourite** button to add this dashboard to your favourites (or click **Close** to cancel adding it to your favourites):

    ![Dashboard Add to favourite dialog box](/images/dashboard-favourites-dialog.jpg)

  - If you click '**Add favourite**', the dialog box will close and a pop-up message will display saying '**Favourite saved successfully**'. A new star icon will now appear next to this dashboard page in the Dashboards menu in the main left side menu (denoting that it is a favourite page).

    ![Favourited dashboard page with star](/images/dashboard-favourites-example.jpg)

4. Click on the **OK** button when you are have completed the **Create dashboard page** dialog box (or click on **Close** to close the dialog box and cancel the creation of the new dashboard page).

5. The output is a menu with a number of widgets available that you can add to the dashboard. Go to [Dashboard widgets](#dashboard-widgets) to find out more about each widget type.

	![Widget menu](/images/dashboard-widget-menu.jpg)

6. Click on the **Save** button ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg)in the top menu to save any changes you make to the new Dashboard page - a pop-up message saying '**Page saved successfully**' will display. 

   Alternatively, if you don't want to save the changes you've made to the page, click on the **Stop editing page** button to return to **View mode** without saving changes:

   ![Dashboard stop editing page button](/images/dashboard-stop-editing-page.jpg)

7. You are now in **View mode**. To make further changes to the dashboard page, return to **Edit mode** by clicking on the **Edit** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu.

To edit a Dashboard page:

1. Click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg)to go into **Edit mode**. 
1. Click on the **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png) - see [How to edit Dashboard page settings](#how-to-edit-dashboard-page-settings) for more details.

If you want to delete a Dashboard page:

1. Click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg)to go into **Edit mode**. 

2. Click on the **Trash/Bin** icon ![Bin](/images/bin.png).

3. A **Delete page** dialog box will open:

   ![Delete dashboard dialog box](/images/dashboard-delete2.jpg)

4. Click on **OK** to confirm that you want to delete the dashboard page (or click on **Cancel** to cancel the deletion).



### Dashboard widgets ###

Kianda comes with **7 predefined dashboard widgets**. Using these widgets, you can quickly and easily create a process dashboard in minutes. 

The dashboard widgets include:

- **Richtext widget**: The Richtext widget can be used to display text, links or images in a dashboard. See [Richtext widget](/docs/platform/pages/richtext/) for more information.

- **Tile widget**: The Tile widget can be used to display a count of instances with different colour schemes. You could also add conditions to a display count - for example, you could add a condition of “Status” equals “In-progress” so that the count of process instances with a status of “In-progress” is displayed. To learn more, go to [Tile widget](/docs/platform/pages/tile/).

- **Chart widget**: Using a Chart widget, you could display a pie chart, bar chart or a line chart in your dashboard. These charts can be used to represent various conditions in a process. For more details, see [Chart widget](/docs/platform/pages/chart/).

- **List widget**: The List widget displays the instances (individual records) of the selected process. It can also be used to connect with any other widget to display the filtered items. See [List widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/) for more details.

- **Filter widget**: The Filter widget can be used to filter process instances based on a field. For example, process instances could be filtered by status. See [Filter widget](/docs/platform/pages/filter/) for more details.

- **Link widget**: The Link widget can be used to add a link to a new process, dashboard or any external sources (such as SharePoint). See [Link widget](/docs/platform/pages/link/) for more details.

- **Walk-through widget**: The Walk-through widget allows you to create a walk-through of a process quickly which could be made available to a user, group or organisation. See [Walk through widget](/docs/platform/pages/walkthrough/) for more details.

When you have added one or more dashboard widgets, you can move the widgets around the dashboard page using the **Drag handle** button. This is possible when you are in **Edit mode**, see [Edit mode and View mode](#edit-mode-and-view-mode).

![Drag handle button](/images/draghandle.png)

  


### How to edit Dashboard page settings ###

To edit a Dashboard page:

1. Click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg)to go into **Edit mode**. 
2. Click on the **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png).
3. An **Edit dashboard page** dialog box opens:

![Edit dashboard page dialog box](/images/dashboard-edit-dialog.jpg)

The options available are the same as those available in the **Create dashboard page** dialog box used to create a new dashboard page  - see [How to create a dashboard page](#how-to-create-a-dashboard-page) - but there are also **two** additional options:

- **Display in mobile footer** - Select this checkbox to display a link to the dashboard in the footer of a mobile phone when the Kianda workspace is accessed on a mobile. Here we can see the example of a link to a dashboard page called 'Staff onboarding' available in the footer of a mobile phone:

  ![Display dashboard in mobile phone footer](/images/dashboard-mobile-footer.jpg)

- **Hide from navigation** - Select this checkbox if you want to hide this dashboard from the navigation in the left side menu. 

  **Note**: Selecting this option will override whatever options you may have inserted in the '**Visible to**' option in the **Create dashboard page** dialog box (which allows you to restrict who can see the dashboard). Selecting **Hide from navigation** will mean the dashboard page will not be visible to anyone in the main side menu.

4. Click on the **OK** button to save the changes you have made in the **Edit dashboard page** dialog box (or click on **Close** to exit the dialog box without saving).



### Enabling data export from dashboards ###

Kianda allows users to export the data from dashboards with a simple click. 

This video explains how to set up the configuration to export data from dashboards:

<video width="100%" style="width:100%" controls>
    <source src="/videos/Enabling data export from the dashboards.mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </source>
</video>



### Offline availability ###

Kianda is a progressive web application. This enables Kianda dashboards to provide insights to the business processes, even in offline mode.

This can be beneficial for businesses with users who will need to complete forms when their device is offline - for example, a business with users who carry out inspections or maintenance in remote locations with no access to the internet. While working offline, the user can still create new process instances or carry out actions on an existing instance.



### Saving changes and version history ###
Make sure to save any changes you make to your Dashboard by clicking on the **Save** button ![Save](/images/saveprocess.png). 



### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

We have briefly introduced Kianda Dashboards. Now let's look at each of available **Dashboard widgets** - and Conditions that can be applied to some of them - in more detail:

Commit message:

New content re levels of security & links to Process-level Security page
New paragraphs added re levels of security and links inserted to 'Dashboard security' and 'Widget security' sections of the 'Process-level security' page.

content/docs/platform/pages/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Dashboard pages"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

Kianda **dashboards** deliver a convenient way to provide insights into how your business processes are performing. Dashboards offer easy reporting, permissions management, quick build, condition-based filtering and many more useful features.

From lists to tiles, filters and charts, dashboards allow you to build full digital experiences to monitor your real-time processes in a few minutes. 

There are 3 steps involved in creating a dashboard:

1. Create a dashboard page.
2. Add one or more widgets.
3. Configure or edit the widgets to make the page look the way you want.

If you are using Kianda predefined processes from the App Store, then dashboards have already been created for you! These are available by clicking on **Dashboard** from the main side menu or left-hand pane.

Before you begin, it is important to be aware that there are **two modes** involved in dashboard pages, an [Edit mode and View mode](#edit-mode-and-view-mode) as described below.



## Edit mode and View mode ##

When using dashboards, there are two modes: **Edit mode** and **View mode**.

### Dashboards View mode ###
When you are in **View mode**, the **Edit** button ![Edit button](/images/edit.png) will be visible to the right in the top menu bar.

![View mode](/images/dashboardgeneral.png)

### Dashboards Edit mode ###
When you click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) you will be in **Edit mode**. When you are viewing a page in **Edit mode**, these options will be available to you along the top of the dashboard page:

- the **Widget menu** where you can insert any of the seven available dashboard widgets
- the **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png) to make changes to the dashboard page
- the **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin button](/images/binicon.png) to delete the dashboard page

![Page edit mode](/images/editmode.png)

In **Edit mode,** you can also make changes to widgets, such as to Kianda predefined dashboards from the App Store, using the **Update configuration** ![Pen button](/images/pen.png), **Settings** ![Cog button](/images/cog.png)and **Delete** ![Bin button](/images/bin.png) buttons.

If you want to create a dashboard page from scratch go to [How to create a dashboard page](#how-to-create-a-dashboard-page) or if you want to learn more about dashboard widgets go to [Dashboard widgets](#dashboard-widgets).



## How to create a Dashboard page ##

Kianda offers a user-friendly interface to create dashboards in minutes. This video covers the steps for creating a new dashboard:

<video width="100%" style="width:100%" controls>
    <source src="/videos/updated_introduction_dashboard.mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </source>
</video>


To create a new Dashboard page:

1. Click on **Home** ![Home button](/images/dashboard-home.jpg) in the left-hand pane
2. Click on the **Create a new page** icon ![Create a new page](/images/dashboard-create-new-page.jpg)
3. A **Create dashboard page** dialog box will open, allowing you to choose from a range of options for your new dashboard page:

	![Create dashboard page dialog box](/images/dashboard-dialog.jpg)

The options in the **Create dashboard page** dialog box include:

- **Title** - The title of the dashboard page. You can insert whatever title you want - for example, 'Training Requests'.

- **Name** - This is a unique name for the dashboard.

- **Visible to** - You can decide who will be able see the dashboard. You can select single or multiple users or Groups or a combination of the two (as shown here):

  ![Dashboard page visible to](/images/dashboard-visible-to.jpg)

  **Note**: **Levels of Security**

  - **Dashboard-level security** can only be applied if you are an **Administrator** and can set the visibility of dashboards and widgets.  The dashboard page-level security you are setting here - who can see the dashboard page - will override any security you set for the visibility of individual widgets on that dashboard. See [Dashboard security](/docs/security/process-level-security#dashboard-security) and [Widget security](/docs/process-level-security#widget-security) for more information.

  - **Widget security**: You will also be able to set security for each of the *individual widgets* that you add to the dashboard, i.e. who can view each dashboard widget.

- **Icon** - You can choose an icon for your dashboard page from a drop-down list of hundreds of available icons. 

  ![Dashboard icon drop down menu](/images/dashboard-icon.jpg)

  The icon you select will appear next to the dashboard title when you click on **Dashboard** in the left side menu to view all of the available dashboards:

  ![Dashboard page icon example](/images/dashboard-icon-example.jpg)

- **Sort order** - Choose a numeric value - by either typing it into the field or by clicking on the up down arrows at the right of the field ![Up down arrows](/images/up-down-arrows.jpg) - for the place you want this dashboard to go in terms of the order of the dashboard pages in your main left side menu. 

- **Group** - You can choose to group this dashboard as a sub-page of an existing dashboard page. If you want to do this, insert the name of the dashboard page you want to group this new dashboard page under.

- **Enable favourites** - Select this checkbox if you want to insert an '**Add to favourites**' button to the top menu in the dashboard. 

  Once you complete the **Create dashboard page** dialog box and click **OK**, and then click the **Save** button ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg)in the top dashboard menu, a new '**Add to favourites**' button will be added to your top dashboard menu:

  ![Dashboard Add to favourites button being clicked](/images/dashboard-favourites-button.jpg)

  If you want to add the current dashboard to your favourites:

  - Click the **Add to favourites** button ![Dashboard Add to favourites button star icon](/images/dashboard-favourites-star.jpg)

  - Complete the **Add to favourite** dialog box that opens and then click the **Add favourite** button to add this dashboard to your favourites (or click **Close** to cancel adding it to your favourites):

    ![Dashboard Add to favourite dialog box](/images/dashboard-favourites-dialog.jpg)

  - If you click '**Add favourite**', the dialog box will close and a pop-up message will display saying '**Favourite saved successfully**'. A new star icon will now appear next to this dashboard page in the Dashboards menu in the main left side menu (denoting that it is a favourite page).

    ![Favourited dashboard page with star](/images/dashboard-favourites-example.jpg)

4. Click on the **OK** button when you are have completed the **Create dashboard page** dialog box (or click on **Close** to close the dialog box and cancel the creation of the new dashboard page).

5. The output is a menu with a number of widgets available that you can add to the dashboard. Go to [Dashboard widgets](#dashboard-widgets) to find out more about each widget type.

	![Widget menu](/images/dashboard-widget-menu.jpg)

6. Click on the **Save** button ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg)in the top menu to save any changes you make to the new Dashboard page - a pop-up message saying '**Page saved successfully**' will display. 

   Alternatively, if you don't want to save the changes you've made to the page, click on the **Stop editing page** button to return to **View mode** without saving changes:

   ![Dashboard stop editing page button](/images/dashboard-stop-editing-page.jpg)

7. You are now in **View mode**. To make further changes to the dashboard page, return to **Edit mode** by clicking on the **Edit** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu.

To edit a Dashboard page:

1. Click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg)to go into **Edit mode**. 
1. Click on the **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png) - see [How to edit Dashboard page settings](#how-to-edit-dashboard-page-settings) for more details.

If you want to delete a Dashboard page:

1. Click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg)to go into **Edit mode**. 

2. Click on the **Trash/Bin** icon ![Bin](/images/bin.png).

3. A **Delete page** dialog box will open:

   ![Delete dashboard dialog box](/images/dashboard-delete2.jpg)

4. Click on **OK** to confirm that you want to delete the dashboard page (or click on **Cancel** to cancel the deletion).



### Dashboard widgets ###

Kianda comes with **7 predefined dashboard widgets**. Using these widgets, you can quickly and easily create a process dashboard in minutes. 

The dashboard widgets include:

- **Richtext widget**: The Richtext widget can be used to display text, links or images in a dashboard. See [Richtext widget](/docs/platform/pages/richtext/) for more information.

- **Tile widget**: The Tile widget can be used to display a count of instances with different colour schemes. You could also add conditions to a display count - for example, you could add a condition of “Status” equals “In-progress” so that the count of process instances with a status of “In-progress” is displayed. To learn more, go to [Tile widget](/docs/platform/pages/tile/).

- **Chart widget**: Using a Chart widget, you could display a pie chart, bar chart or a line chart in your dashboard. These charts can be used to represent various conditions in a process. For more details, see [Chart widget](/docs/platform/pages/chart/).

- **List widget**: The List widget displays the instances (individual records) of the selected process. It can also be used to connect with any other widget to display the filtered items. See [List widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/) for more details.

- **Filter widget**: The Filter widget can be used to filter process instances based on a field. For example, process instances could be filtered by status. See [Filter widget](/docs/platform/pages/filter/) for more details.

- **Link widget**: The Link widget can be used to add a link to a new process, dashboard or any external sources (such as SharePoint). See [Link widget](/docs/platform/pages/link/) for more details.

- **Walk-through widget**: The Walk-through widget allows you to create a walk-through of a process quickly which could be made available to a user, group or organisation. See [Walk through widget](/docs/platform/pages/walkthrough/) for more details.

When you have added one or more dashboard widgets, you can move the widgets around the dashboard page using the **Drag handle** button. This is possible when you are in **Edit mode**, see [Edit mode and View mode](#edit-mode-and-view-mode).

![Drag handle button](/images/draghandle.png)

  


### How to edit Dashboard page settings ###

To edit a Dashboard page:

1. Click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg)to go into **Edit mode**. 
2. Click on the **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png).
3. An **Edit dashboard page** dialog box opens:

![Edit dashboard page dialog box](/images/dashboard-edit-dialog.jpg)

The options available are the same as those available in the **Create dashboard page** dialog box used to create a new dashboard page  - see [How to create a dashboard page](#how-to-create-a-dashboard-page) - but there are also **two** additional options:

- **Display in mobile footer** - Select this checkbox to display a link to the dashboard in the footer of a mobile phone when the Kianda workspace is accessed on a mobile. Here we can see the example of a link to a dashboard page called 'Staff onboarding' available in the footer of a mobile phone:

  ![Display dashboard in mobile phone footer](/images/dashboard-mobile-footer.jpg)

- **Hide from navigation** - Select this checkbox if you want to hide this dashboard from the navigation in the left side menu. 

  **Note**: Selecting this option will override whatever options you may have inserted in the '**Visible to**' option in the **Create dashboard page** dialog box (which allows you to restrict who can see the dashboard). Selecting **Hide from navigation** will mean the dashboard page will not be visible to anyone in the main side menu.

4. Click on the **OK** button to save the changes you have made in the **Edit dashboard page** dialog box (or click on **Close** to exit the dialog box without saving).



### Enabling data export from dashboards ###

Kianda allows users to export the data from dashboards with a simple click. 

This video explains how to set up the configuration to export data from dashboards:

<video width="100%" style="width:100%" controls>
    <source src="/videos/Enabling data export from the dashboards.mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </source>
</video>



### Offline availability ###

Kianda is a progressive web application. This enables Kianda dashboards to provide insights to the business processes, even in offline mode.

This can be beneficial for businesses with users who will need to complete forms when their device is offline - for example, a business with users who carry out inspections or maintenance in remote locations with no access to the internet. While working offline, the user can still create new process instances or carry out actions on an existing instance.



### Saving changes and version history ###
Make sure to save any changes you make to your Dashboard by clicking on the **Save** button ![Save](/images/saveprocess.png). 



### What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ###

We have briefly introduced Kianda Dashboards. Now let's look at each of available **Dashboard widgets** - and Conditions that can be applied to some of them - in more detail:
