content/docs/platform/pages/richtext.md, before:

---
title: "Rich Text widget"
linkTitle: "Rich Text widget"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

A dashboard **Rich Text widget** can be used to create custom rich text content on a dashboard page, such as an attractive banner or heading. It can provide optimum formatting options, such as bold and italics and the option to insert images or links.



## How to get started

To add a **Rich Text widget** to a dashboard:

1. Open the relevant dashboard page. To learn how to create your first dashboard page, go to [How to create a dashboard page](/docs/platform/pages#how-to-create-a-dashboard-page). 

   For this example, we'll open a dashboard page called 'Annual Leave' that currently only has a [List widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/) on it:

   ![Annual Leave dashboard page example](/images/dashboard-annual-leave-example.jpg)

2. Click on the **Edit current page** button from the top dashboard menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode) (in which the **Widget menu**, **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png), **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin trash button](/images/bin.png) and **Add layout container** button ![Dashboard Add layout container button](/images/dashboard-add-layout-container.jpg) are available):

   ![Click Edit current page button to go into Edit mode](/images/dashboard-edit-button.jpg)

3. Click on the **Rich Text widget** button in the Dashboard **Widget menu**.

   ![Select the Rich Text button in the Dashboard Widget menu](/images/dashboard-select-richtext.jpg)

4. The **Add widget** dialog box opens with a range of options for your new **Rich Text widget**.

   ![Dashboard Add widget dialog box](/images/dashboard-add-widget-dialog.jpg)

   Choose the options you want:

   - **Title** - You can insert the title you want for your **Rich Text widget**. In our example, we'll call it 'Information'.

   - **Layout columns** - You can choose how wide you want your **Rich Text widget** to be. You can choose from 1 to 12 columns in width by clicking on the blue bar. For example click half-way across the blue bar to create a widget that is 6 columns wide, or click on the right of the blue bar to create a column that is 12 columns wide.

   - **Colour scheme** - You can choose from six colour options for the header of the widget (Navy, Green, Blue, Amber, Red or White).

   - **Show header** - You can choose whether or not you want the header of your Dashboard widget to be shown.

   - **Visible to** - You can determine who will be able to see the **Rich Text widget**. You can select single or multiple Users or Groups, or a combination of the two. You can select Users or Groups in the right-hand menu so that the options shown in the drop-down list are either individual users or Groups.

     To find out more about pre-defined Groups on Kianda, go to [Users & Groups](/docs/platform/administration/users).

   - **Device visibility** - You can choose what devices and types of internet connections the dashboard **Rich Text widget** will be visible on - select all the options you want from Desktop, Tablet, Mobile, Wi-Fi and Flight mode as to when the device can view the dashboards. By default, all options are selected.

     ![Device visibility](/images/devicevisibility.png)

5. Click on **OK** when you've completed the **Add widget** dialog box.

6. An **Edit content** dialog box automatically opens:

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget Edit content dialog box](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-dialog.jpg)

   - Insert the content you want to appear in your **Rich Text widget** by using the available options.

   - Insert the text you want to appear in the body of the **Edit content** dialog box. You can choose from an wide array of styles and formats, including: **Style**, **Colour**, **Bold**, **Underline**, **Remove font style**, **Font size**, **Font family**, **Unordered list**, **Ordered list**, **Paragraph**, and **Table**. 

   - You can also choose to insert a **Link** or **Picture** or to switch to **Code view** (if you click on **Code view** button ![Code view button](/images/code.png)you can copy HTML code directly into the text). 

   - If you click on **Picture** an **Insert Picture** dialog box opens, allowing you to either browse to select an image file or to insert an image URL (as shown here):

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget insert image dialog box](/images/dashboard-richtext-image.jpg)

   

   For our example, we will insert text details relating to the Annual Leave dashboard, format them as we want, and also insert a suitable image:

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget Edit content dialog box example](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-content.jpg)

   

7. Click on the **OK** button when you are finished inserting the content you want in your **Rich Text widget** or click on **Close** to exit the dialog box without saving. 

8. Your **Rich Text widget** will now be displayed on your dashboard. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the insertion of the new widget.

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget example](/images/dashboard-richtext-example.jpg)



### How to edit Rich Text widgets

To edit a **Rich Text widget** on a dashboard:

1. In the dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to view the page in [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode) (in which the **Widget menu**, **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png) and **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin trash button](/images/bin.png) are available).

2. Click on the Rich Text widget's **Update configuration** (Edit) button ![Dashboard update configuration button](/images/dashboard-update-configuration.jpg).

   ![Select Dashboard Rich Text widget Update configuration button](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-example.jpg)

3. The **Edit content** dialog box opens, enabling you to make whatever changes you want to the content of the Rich Text widget using the same range of options as outlined in Step 6 of [How to get started](/docs/platform/pages/richtext#how-to-get-started).

4.  Making the changes you want and then click **OK**. 

5. The updated **Rich Text widget** will be shown on the Dashboard. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the changes you've made.



### How to move Rich Text widgets

To move a **Rich Text widget** on a dashboard:

1. On your dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode).
2. Select the widget's **drag handle** button ![Dashboard widget drag handle button](/images/dashboard-widget-draghandle.jpg). 
3. Drag and drop the widget where you want it to go on your dashboard. 

  In our example, we could move the new Rich Text widget to the left of the List widget:

  ![Move a Dashboard Rich Text widget](/images/dashboard-richtext-move.jpg)



### How to delete Rich Text widgets

To delete a **Rich Text widget** from your dashboard:

1. On your dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode).

2. Click on the widget's **Remove widget** (Bin/Trash icon) button ![Bin icon](/images/binicon.png).

   ![Delete Dashboard Rich Text widget](/images/dashboard-richtext-delete.jpg)

3. A **Delete widget** dialog box will open. Click on **OK** to delete the widget (or click on **Cancel** if you wish to cancel the deletion).

   ![Dashboard Delete widget dialog](/images/dashboard-delete-widget-dialog.jpg)

   


### How to edit Rich Text widget settings

To update or edit your **Rich Text widget** settings:

1. On your dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode).

2. Click on the **Update widget settings** (Cog) button ![Dashboard Update widget settings button](/images/cog-shared-process.jpg).

   ![Dashboard Update widget settings button](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-widget-settings.jpg)

3. The **Edit widget** dialog box will open, enabling you to make changes to any of the available options (the same options as were available in the **Create widget** dialog box discussed in Step 4 of [How to get started](/docs/platform/pages/richtext#how-to-get-started)).

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget Edit widget dialog box](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-widget-dialog.jpg)

   In our example, we could choose to make increase the width of the **Rich Text widget** to be 7 columns wide, by clicking to the right of the existing blue bar.

4. Click on **OK** to confirm the changes you've made to the widget settings (or click on **Close** if you don't want to retain any changes).

5. The updated **Rich Text widget** will display on your dashboard. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the changes you've made.



### Saving changes ###

Make sure to save any changes you make to your **Rich Text widget** by clicking on the **Save** button ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu. If you leave the dashboard without saving the changes you have made to a widget, the next time you visit the dashboard it won't include any of the changes made to it since the dashboard page was last saved.



## What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ##

Now that you've learned about the **Dashboard Rich Text widget**, find out more about the other types of **Dashboard widget** you can add to your Kianda dashboard:

- [Chart widget](/docs/platform/pages/chart/)
- [Filter widget](/docs/platform/pages/filter/)
- [Link widget](/docs/platform/pages/link/)
- [List widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/)
- [Tile widget](/docs/platform/pages/tile/)
- [Walkthrough widget](/docs/platform/pages/walkthrough)

Commit message:

New content re levels of security & layout containers, new link
Inserted new instruction re levels of security and layout container option. Inserted new link to Custom dashboard widget page at bottom. New image inserted.

content/docs/platform/pages/richtext.md, after:

---
title: "Rich Text widget"
linkTitle: "Rich Text widget"
typora-root-url: ..\..\..\..\static
---

A dashboard **Rich Text widget** can be used to create custom rich text content on a dashboard page, such as an attractive banner or heading. It can provide optimum formatting options, such as bold and italics and the option to insert images or links.



## How to get started

To add a **Rich Text widget** to a dashboard:

1. Open the relevant dashboard page. To learn how to create your first dashboard page, go to [How to create a dashboard page](/docs/platform/pages#how-to-create-a-dashboard-page). 

   For this example, we'll open a dashboard page called 'Annual Leave' that currently only has a [List widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/) on it:

   ![Annual Leave dashboard page example](/images/dashboard-annual-leave-example.jpg)

2. Click on the **Edit current page** button from the top dashboard menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode) (in which the **Widget menu**, **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png), **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin trash button](/images/bin.png) and **Add layout container** button ![Dashboard Add layout container button](/images/dashboard-add-layout-container.jpg) are available):

   ![Click Edit current page button to go into Edit mode](/images/dashboard-edit-button.jpg)

3. Click on the **Rich Text widget** button in the Dashboard **Widget menu**.

   ![Select the Rich Text button in the Dashboard Widget menu](/images/dashboard-select-richtext.jpg)

4. The **Add widget** dialog box opens with a range of options for your new **Rich Text widget**.

   ![Dashboard Add widget dialog box](/images/dashboard-add-widget-dialog.jpg)

   Choose the options you want:

   - **Title** - You can insert the title you want for your **Rich Text widget**. In our example, we'll call it 'Information'.

   - **Layout columns** - You can choose how wide you want your **Rich Text widget** to be. You can choose from 1 to 12 columns in width by clicking on the blue bar. For example click half-way across the blue bar to create a widget that is 6 columns wide, or click on the right of the blue bar to create a column that is 12 columns wide.

   - **Colour scheme** - You can choose from six colour options for the header of the widget (Navy, Green, Blue, Amber, Red or White).

   - **Show header** - You can choose whether or not you want the header of your Dashboard widget to be shown.

   - **Visible to** - You can determine who will be able to see the **Rich Text widget**. You can select single or multiple Users or Groups, or a combination of the two. You can select Users or Groups in the right-hand menu so that the options shown in the drop-down list are either individual users or Groups.

     To find out more about pre-defined Groups on Kianda, go to [Users & Groups](/docs/platform/administration/users).

     - **Note - Dashboard page security**: When a dashboard page is first created, the users(s)/group(s) who will be able to view the dashboard are selected in the '**Visible to**' option in the **Create dashboard page** dialog box (see Step 3 in [How to create a Dashboard page](/docs/platform/pages#how-to-create-a-dashboard-page)). 

       You can also edit or update this setting at any point to change who has permission to view a particular dashboard page. This higher dashboard-level security setting will take precedence over the security settings ('Visible to') that are applied to the *individual widgets* within the dashboard (such as the Rich Text widget, in this case).

       See [Dashboard security](/docs/security/process-level-security#dashboard-security) and [Widget security](/docs/security/process-level-security#widget-security) for more information.
   
   - **Layout container** - This option will only display if you have already created layout containers for your Dashboard page. Here, you can select which layout container you want your new **Link widget** to be placed in.
   
     A layout container is a simple way to organise, arrange and move the widgets you add to your dashboard. To learn more about layout containers, go to [How to add layout containers to a Dashboard page](/docs/platform/pages#how-to-add-layout-containers-to-a-dashboard-page).
   
     In this example, we can select to place our new Rich Text widget into one of three layout containers - Top, Middle or Bottom:

		![Dashboard Add widget dialog box select Layout container](/images/dashboard-select-layout-container.jpg)
		
	- **Device visibility** - You can choose what devices and types of internet connections the dashboard **Rich Text widget** will be visible on - select all the options you want from Desktop, Tablet, Mobile, Wi-Fi and Flight mode as to when the device can view the dashboards. By default, all options are selected.

![Device visibility](/images/devicevisibility.png)

5. Click on **OK** when you've completed the **Add widget** dialog box.

6. An **Edit content** dialog box automatically opens:

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget Edit content dialog box](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-dialog.jpg)

   - Insert the content you want to appear in your **Rich Text widget** by using the available options.

   - Insert the text you want to appear in the body of the **Edit content** dialog box. You can choose from an wide array of styles and formats, including: **Style**, **Colour**, **Bold**, **Underline**, **Remove font style**, **Font size**, **Font family**, **Unordered list**, **Ordered list**, **Paragraph**, and **Table**. 

   - You can also choose to insert a **Link** or **Picture** or to switch to **Code view** (if you click on **Code view** button ![Code view button](/images/code.png)you can copy HTML code directly into the text). 

   - If you click on **Picture** an **Insert Picture** dialog box opens, allowing you to either browse to select an image file or to insert an image URL (as shown here):

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget insert image dialog box](/images/dashboard-richtext-image.jpg)

   

   For our example, we will insert text details relating to the Annual Leave dashboard, format them as we want, and also insert a suitable image:

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget Edit content dialog box example](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-content.jpg)

   

7. Click on the **OK** button when you are finished inserting the content you want in your **Rich Text widget** or click on **Close** to exit the dialog box without saving. 

8. Your **Rich Text widget** will now be displayed on your dashboard. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the insertion of the new widget.

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget example](/images/dashboard-richtext-example.jpg)



### How to edit Rich Text widgets

To edit a **Rich Text widget** on a dashboard:

1. In the dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to view the page in [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode) (in which the **Widget menu**, **Settings** button ![Settings](/images/settings.png) and **Bin/Trash** button ![Bin trash button](/images/bin.png) are available).

2. Click on the Rich Text widget's **Update configuration** (Edit) button ![Dashboard update configuration button](/images/dashboard-update-configuration.jpg).

   ![Select Dashboard Rich Text widget Update configuration button](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-example.jpg)

3. The **Edit content** dialog box opens, enabling you to make whatever changes you want to the content of the Rich Text widget using the same range of options as outlined in Step 6 of [How to get started](/docs/platform/pages/richtext#how-to-get-started).

4.  Making the changes you want and then click **OK**. 

5. The updated **Rich Text widget** will be shown on the Dashboard. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the changes you've made.



### How to move Rich Text widgets

To move a **Rich Text widget** on a dashboard:

1. On your dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode).
2. Select the widget's **drag handle** button ![Dashboard widget drag handle button](/images/dashboard-widget-draghandle.jpg). 
3. Drag and drop the widget where you want it to go on your dashboard. 
4. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the changes you've made.

  In our example, we could move the new Rich Text widget to the left of the List widget:

  ![Move a Dashboard Rich Text widget](/images/dashboard-richtext-move.jpg)



### How to delete Rich Text widgets

To delete a **Rich Text widget** from your dashboard:

1. On your dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode).

2. Click on the widget's **Remove widget** (Bin/Trash icon) button ![Bin icon](/images/binicon.png).

   ![Delete Dashboard Rich Text widget](/images/dashboard-richtext-delete.jpg)

3. A **Delete widget** dialog box will open. Click on **OK** to delete the widget (or click on **Cancel** if you wish to cancel the deletion).

   ![Dashboard Delete widget dialog](/images/dashboard-delete-widget-dialog.jpg)

4. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the changes you've made.

   

   


### How to edit Rich Text widget settings

To update or edit your **Rich Text widget** settings:

1. On your dashboard, click on the **Edit current page** button ![Edit button](/images/edit-current-page.jpg) in the top menu to go into [Dashboard Edit mode](/docs/platform/pages#dashboards-edit-mode).

2. Click on the **Update widget settings** (Cog) button ![Dashboard Update widget settings button](/images/cog-shared-process.jpg).

   ![Dashboard Update widget settings button](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-widget-settings.jpg)

3. The **Edit widget** dialog box will open, enabling you to make changes to any of the available options (the same options as were available in the **Create widget** dialog box discussed in Step 4 of [How to get started](/docs/platform/pages/richtext#how-to-get-started)).

   ![Dashboard Rich Text widget Edit widget dialog box](/images/dashboard-richtext-edit-widget-dialog.jpg)

   In our example, we could choose to make increase the width of the **Rich Text widget** to be 7 columns wide, by clicking to the right of the existing blue bar.

4. Click on **OK** to confirm the changes you've made to the widget settings (or click on **Close** if you don't want to retain any changes).

5. The updated **Rich Text widget** will display on your dashboard. Click on **Save** ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu to save the changes you've made.



### Saving changes ###

Make sure to save any changes you make to your **Rich Text widget** by clicking on the **Save** button ![Dashboard Save button](/images/dashboard-save-button.jpg) in the dashboard top menu. If you leave the dashboard without saving the changes you have made to a widget, the next time you visit the dashboard it won't include any of the changes made to it since the dashboard page was last saved.



## What's next  ![Idea icon](/images/18.png) ##

Now that you've learned about the **Dashboard Rich Text widget**, find out more about the other types of **Dashboard widget** you can add to your Kianda dashboard:

- [Chart widget](/docs/platform/pages/chart/)
- [Filter widget](/docs/platform/pages/filter/)
- [Link widget](/docs/platform/pages/link/)
- [List widget](/docs/platform/pages/list/)
- [Tile widget](/docs/platform/pages/tile/)
- [Walkthrough widget](/docs/platform/pages/walkthrough/)
- [Custom dashboard widget]( /docs/platform/pages/custom/)
